//-----------------------------------------------

Robert Loquinario - rloquina@ucsc.edu
Lab #1 
Due April 16, 2017
CMPE 12L Section B 
MW 11:00 AM - 1:00 PM 
TA: Max Lichtenstein

//-----------------------------------------------

Title: Intro to Logic with Multimedia Logic

Purpose: 

The objective of this lab is to learn how to use the Multimedia Logic application in windows. By learning
how to use the app I will gain experience designing combinatorial logic circuits and use combinatorial 
logic as part of more complex circuits. 

Procedure:

First doing the tutorial for Part A I found it very easy to use MML to create a simple circuit with a 
switch and LED. With the switch as the only input deciding the state of the LED, on or off. Completing 
part A gave me an idea of how to use MML for the following parts. 

Part B allowed me to see the hardware interpretation of binary. Using 4 switches as inputs, with LED 
lights to show if a switch is on, connected to a number generator. The number is based on binary, meaning 
powers of two. This part of the lab helped me understand number generation using switches in a circuit.
To answer how would I would make my own 7-segment display, I would use 7 LEDs in the shape of the 7 
segments and logic gates activating only when the part of the segment is suppose to be lit. 

Part C was more challenging in the aspect that I had to transform a truth table into logic gates. Using 
switches as the the 3 inputs and one LED light as the output. I decided to use disjunctive normal form to 
create a formula for the truth table. At first I wasn't sure what to do then I then simplified it to

			A'B' + B(A'C+AC')

To convert my logic into gates, I tackled the formula in two parts A'B' and B(A'C+AC'). for A'B' I had a 
wire from A and B to an XOR gate to only allow A'B' to have the LED light up. For B(A'C + AC')
I knew for this B had to be true so I put a wire from B into an AND gate. I had A and C 
connected to an XOR gate, since (A'C + AC') signified only one of them being true, to be connect to the 
other slot for the AND gate. 

Part D was a little easier in which I had to create a number guessing game using MML, only random 2-bit 
numbers. Using a random number generator circuit element. I connected to the bottom right two pins because 
they are corresponding to the first two powers of 2: 1 and 2. I then set a momentary pushbutton switch to 
activate the number generator. To have the user input be checked to be correct I had wires from switches 
and their corresponding port in the number generator to their each XNOR gates to an AND gate to an LED. 
The XNOR gates would make sure only if both inputs (one switch and the corresponding slot in the number 
generator) were the same, either both off or on. The AND gate would make sure both XNOR gates were true to 
make the LED light up to show correctness. 

I believe the number generator works by the internal clock inside the circuit somewhere that can use the
current time from UNIX epoch and do some calculations to get a desired random number.

Conclusion: 

I learned how to transition from SoP to actual schematic design. By completing the lab I learn a great 
amount in using logic with MML and problem solving in a new environment. I also learned you can model
almost anything in MML. 